                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
       888                                888
       888                                888
       888                                888
       888      .d88b.  88888b.   .d88b.  88888b.   .d88b.  888  888  888
       888     d88""88b 888 "88b d88P"88b 888 "88b d88""88b 888  888  888
       888     888  888 888  888 888  888 888  888 888  888 888  888  888
       888     Y88..88P 888  888 Y88b 888 888 d88P Y88..88P Y88b 888 d88P
       88888888 "Y88P"  888  888  "Y88888 88888P"   "Y88P"   "Y8888888P"
                                      888
                                 Y8b d88P
                                  "Y88P"



longbow-examples contains a set of Molecular Dynamics input files that you can
use to learn how to use Longbow.

In the section below there is a list of the commands that will show you how to
submit the Longbow examples as jobs on an external resource (HPC) using these
files. 

Prior to attempting the examples you should firstly ensure that you have an
active account on a HPC machine and that the MD package of interest is
installed, then follow the documentation for adding your first HPC machine
account to Longbow at the following link

http://www.hecbiosim.ac.uk/longbow-docs?showall=&start=2#2.1

Note - We ensure that these examples work on the UK national supercomputer
ARCHER, whilst there is no reason to suspect that they will not work elsewhere,
there is a chance that software has been installed with different executable
names or in other non-default ways. In these cases you might need to slightly
modify the procedures described below. We are happy to provide support if
required.


**********
How to Run
**********

The following instructions will assume you have downloaded and extracted the
examples and changed into the 'longbow-examples' directory path.

Quick Start Examples
====================

In the 'quick_start' directory, you can choose examples for your favourite
Molecular Dynamics package and learn how to submit a simple longbow job from
your local machine. 

AMBER
-----

Change into 'longbow-examples/quick_start/amber' and run:

longbow --verbose pmemd.MPI -O -i example.in -c example.min -p example.top -o example.out

CHARMM
------

Change into 'longbow-examples/quick_start/charmm' and run:

longbow --verbose charmm -i example.inp ">" example.out

GROMACS
-------

Change into 'longbow-examples/quick_start/gromacs' and run:

longbow --verbose gmx mdrun_mpi -s example.tpr -deffnm output

LAMMPS
------

Change into 'longbow-examples/quick_start/lammps' and run:

longbow --verbose lmp_xc30 -i example.in -l output

NAMD
----

Change into 'longbow-examples/quick_start/namd' and run:

longbow --verbose namd2 example.in ">" example.out


################################################################################
longbow-examples/replicate_job

In this directory, users can learn how to submit replicas by executing the below 
command on a desktop:

longbow --verbose --replicates 5 namd2 example.in

################################################################################
longbow-examples/multiple-jobs

longbow-examples/multiple-jobs/different_job_types

In this directory, users can learn how to submit multiple jobs to multiple 
resources (HPC's). Edit /multi/job.conf to specify resources with entries in 
~/.Longbow/hosts.conf and submit on your desktop using the below command:

longbow --job job.conf --verbose

longbow-examples/multiple-jobs/different_applications

In this directory, users can learn how to submit multiple jobs that each use a
different molecular dynamics package. Just execute the following command on a 
desktop:

longbow --job job.conf --verbose
